Great Britain, France and Russia become known as what side at the onset of World War I?
The Allies

Germany, Austria-Hungary and the Ottoman Empire become known as:
The Central Powers

Why did Hitler join the German army when World War I started?
It gave him a place to belong.

What is the area known as no-man's land?
The area between trenches that was particularly dangerous.

What did the British soldier fail to do that would have changed history?
He did not shoot Adolf Hitler.

What was Churchill's strategy or plan?
To bypass the Gallipoli Peninsula to get to Russia, resupply the Russians and create a front in the east from which to fight the Central Powers.

What was the result of the Battle at Gallipoli?
It failed terribly, many men died and the Allies failed to reach Russia.

What is the common goal Germany and Lenin (the leader of the Bolshevik Communist party) share for Russia?
All of the above

Does the plan that Germany devised and the revolution Lenin implemented to force Russia out of the war work?
Yes-Russia pulls out of the war in 1917.

What country that joined the Allies in 1915 did Hitler attack next?
Italy

What is the secret weapon that Germany unleashes at Ypres, Belgium?
Poison gas

What was the final straw that caused the U.S. to declare war on Germany in April 1917?
The Zimmerman Telegram which was a secret message from Germany trying to entice Mexico into a border war with the U.S.

Initially what were some problems related to the use of the tank?
All of the above

What type of new poison gas do the Allies use against the Germans?
Mustard gas

MacArthur and Patten's offensive to break the German line resulted in:
victory for the Allies and German surrender.

What country was not invited to Versailles to discuss the terms of the end of the war?
Germany

Why did Japan leave the peace negotiations angry at the Allied countries including the U.S.?
They fought with the Allies during the war but were not treated as equal to them at Versailles.

The European allies and the U.S. had different opinions about how to treat Germany.  The Europeans decided to punish Germany by
forcing them to pay billions of dollars in war fines.

By the end of the video, Hitler of Germany and Mussolini of Italy are both set to do what?
Take control of each of their countries

