Who does Hitler believe is the main enemy facing Germany? 
Jews

According to Roosevelt (also known as FDR), the only thing we have to fear is ___________?

Fear itself

Which of these strategies did Hitler use to secure his power? 
Violence

Hitler eliminated about 100 of his enemies on which of these historic days? 
The Night of the Long Knives

Germany must build up their military in secret because of 
the terms of the Treaty of Versailles 

Which country did Italy attack in 1934?
Ethiopia 

Germany and Italy form an alliance known as 
the Axis Powers

True or false: other countries tried to stop Hitler from taking the Rhineland.
False

Like Germany and Italy, Japan is focus on building a strong
military 

Which of these countries joined Germany and Italy in the Axis Powers? 
Japan

What was Neville Chamberlain trying to avoid by meeting with Hitler? 
War

Britain's policy of _________  allowed Hitler to take over the land he wanted in hopes of avoiding a conflict 
appeasement 

Did Hitler keep his promise to stop expanding after taking the Sudetenland? 
No

What do Hitler and Stalin have in common?
They used violence to secure their power

How many people died in Stalin's work camps? 
2 million

Hitler makes a pact with Stalin so that
they don't have to fight them 

Hitler's army used the technique "Blitzkrieg," which means
lightening war

Chamberlain declares war on Germany after the invasion of Poland. What does he do next?
Nothing

Who became the Prime Minister of Great Britain after Chamberlain?
Churchill

It takes Hitler only 6 weeks to conquer which country? 
France

Churchill promises that Great Britain will never do what?
Surrender

Hitler uses which of these to attack Britain?
The German Airforce

Which of these was NOT a result of the London Blitz?
Churchill decided to give into Hitler's demands

What continent did Japan want to expand into? 
Asia

What general did Roosevelt put in command of the troops in the Pacific? 
MacArthur

Who does Hitler attack in 1941? 
Russia

What important resource did the US cut off from Japan?
Oil

The Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor to
destroy the American fleet (ships) 


