!!!!!!!!  Why is the National Assembly declaring war on Austria?
All of the above

At this time, why is Marat calling for any and everyone to slaughter all of the people in the prisons?
Fear of them being freed by invading Germans and then bringing down the revolution

What is contradictory about these actions taken by the radical revolutionaries (sans culottes)?
It goes against everything the Enlightenment stood for

Who is going to rise up and lead the revolution from here on out?
Robespierre

There are two political groups running the Convention (Assembly):  the Jacobins and the Girondins.   Which group believes King Louis XVI is a traitor and therefore deserves to die?
Jacobins (Robespierre, Marat)

What was the triggering event that was the catalyst for a war with Austria, mass paranoia and eventual execution of King Louis XVI?  Hint:  This one event triggered war and bloodshed and now radicalism amongst the revolutionaries.
The failed royal escape to Austria

What are the Girondins concerned about?
Jacobins are becoming too radical and people will stop supporting the revolution

True or False:  The Girondins were right.
True

Why did Charlotte Corday kill Jean-Paul Marat?
To stop the massacres in Paris

True or False:  The French revolutionaries are beginning to replace Christianity with a new type of religion ... one that idolizes the revolution and its ideals.
True

True or False:  By executing Marie Antoinette, they revolutionaries would symbolically be doing away with everything that they believed was wrong with France.
True

What did the execution of the monarchs do?
Caused people to want more blood

The purpose of the Reign of Terror, led by the Jacobins, was to:
Save the revolution by getting rid of anyone who could be against it

The leader of this new 12-man dictatorship, the Committee of Public Safety (an emergency government with emergency powers) was:
Robespierre

During the Reign of Terror, what did the revolutaries say was the root of all evil?
The church

Who is fighting against the revolution's external enemies and WINNING great battles?
Napoleon

Whom are the revolutionaries (Jacobins) fighting now?
All of the above

True of False:  The Reign of Terror did NOT achieve its goals.
False - it did

What does Robespierre mean that you can use terror to create virtue?
If you don't learn the high moral behaviors we desire, the guillotine will teach you.

Why is Robespierre executing Danton and his followers?
All of the above

Why did Robespierre create a new holiday, centered around a Supreme Being known as the Goddess of Reason?
The people needed an enlightened god to believe in, not a Christian one

Which word DOES NOT describe Robespierre at this moment:
Forgiving

What led to Robespierre's arrest and his attempt at taking his own life?
His List of Traitors that backfired

Did executing Robespierre end the Terror?
Yes

After the death of Robespierre, the country was unstable and lacked leadership until ______________ came in and took over.
Napoleon 

Why do many people find the French Revolution (despite its horrors) inspiring?
All of the above

















