What was included in the Manden Charter?
All of these

We'll play along with the contestants, so make a guess about the following question. You'll get points even if your guess is wrong! What did Abubakari do with this information? Type A, B, or C for your guess.
C

How did Mansa Musa become king?
The previous king went on an adventure to find what was on the other side of the Atlantic, assigning Mansa Musa as the temporary king, but he never came back.

True or False: The Mali Empire was 2000 miles wide and contained 400 cities.
True

Make a guess about the following question. You'll get points even if your guess is wrong! How did Mansa Musa maintain control? Type A, B, or C for your guess.
B

What is the hajj or pilgimage that Muslims are required to complete if they're able?
They must go to Mecca if that's possible.

What day of the week is the holy day in Islam?
Friday

Make a guess about the following question. You'll get points even if your guess is wrong! What did Mansa Musa do? Type A, B, or C for your guess.
C

During his hajj, Mansa Musa constructed a mosque every Friday so he'd have somewhere to pray and built a swimming pool for his wife since she missed swimming in the Niger River.
True

Why didn't Mansa Musa want to meet the sultan of Egypt? Type A, B, or C for your guess.
B

What was the consequence of Mansa Musa giving away so much gold? Type A, B, or C for your guess.
B

Mansa Musa caused _________ by flooding the economy of Egypt with gold while he was there.
hyperinflation

How did Mansa Musa help to repair the Egyptian economy when he came back through after his hajj was complete?
He bought back all the gold he spent.

Was Mansa Musa's repair to the Egyptian economy effective?
No

What city in Mali became a center for learning?
Timbuktu

List one of Mansa Musa's quirks as a leader.
Nobody could sneeze in his presence.

What happened if you found yourself in the king's presence with sandals on? Type A, B, or C for your guess.
C

Mansa Musa would be worth $400 billion if he were alive today. Whose wealth does that amount double?
Jeff Bezos (currently)

The Empire of Mali did not last long after Mansa Musa died in 1337.
True

What are two things you learned about Mansa Musa during the video? What's one question you still have about Mansa Musa or the Empire of Mali?
He managed to lower the egyptian economy by 25%, repaired it, then promptly collapsed it by an unknown percent. If you wore sandals in his presence, you were killed.

What was one key reason for the growth of the Aksum Empire?
Trade and naval strength

How did the Benin Empire acquire wealth?
Location near the Niger river

What was a unique feature of the Kingdom of Ghana's legal system?
Drinking a wood and water mixture to prove innocence 

Which ruler is known as the richest man in history from the Mali Empire?
Mansa Musa

What was a significant achievement of the Nok civilization?
Crafting life-sized terracotta statues

What was a key difference between the Kingdom of Kush and ancient Egypt?
Role of women in society

Why did the Songhai Empire eventually collapse?
Civil war due to large size

What was a unique feature of the Land of Punt according to historical accounts?
Suspended reed huts

How did the Zulu Empire achieve military success under Shaka Zulu?
Introduction of the spear and shield formation

What was a significant contribution of the Ancient Carthage city-state to the region?
rich trading empire and commercial force







