What powerful family did Galileo work for?
de Medici

How is Galileo able to get people to understand mathematics better?
He can make a dry topic entertaining.

What theory does Galileo develop a half of century before Netwon?
Gravity

Which of the following did Galileo not find with his improved telescope?
Unusual shape of Jupiter

What was Bruno's punishment for saying the universe was infinite?
burned alive

How did the Inquisition show mercy to Bruno?
Tied a bag of gun powder around his neck to speed up his execution

Why does Galileo write about his geocentric theory as a dialogue instead of saying it is a scientific discovery?
Because he didn't want to get in trouble with the church.

Why is Galileo's trial not a real trial?
There weren't many real legal aspects of it, it was more political.

Why do the de Medici family stop paying Galileo's expenses?
The de Medicis did not want to get in trouble with the Pope.

Why did Galileo recant (take back) all of his teachings?
He did not want to be executed by the Church.

What punishment does Galileo receive from the Church?
House Arrest for the rest of his life

What is Galileo's impact on History and Science?
He created the telescope and discovered new radical things about the universe that nobody else dared to say.

Why was Lorenzo's marriage important?
The Medici needed political power.

Did Lorenzo want to be the "godfather" of Florence?
No

What was controversial about Botticelli's "La Primavera"?
All of the above

Was Lorenzo able to to bring peace between the 2 groups?
Yes

Lorenzo and Giuliano were the heirs from which family?
Medici

How did the painting l'Adorazione dei Magi celebrate the Medici Family?
It adds some people of the Medici Family to it as important people.

Why was Lorenzo in the spotlight after the death his father?
Because he inherited everything.

How does Lorenzo expand his power?
He had power, wealth, and he had good alliances with others.

In your opinion, can Lorenzo be considered a man of the people? Why?
Yes, because he had their support and helped them out on occasions.

How does the fresco represent the Medici's power?
It shows them beside royalty.

In an art world dominated by religious paintings, what is so different in Botticelli's work?
His artwork isn't exactly very religious.

What is the name of the Medici's rival family?
Pazzi

Why does the church decide to ally with the Pazzi?
Because it's in debt to the Medici Family.

Who died during the Pazzi conspirancy?
Giuliano Medici

Now that the Pazzi are not a threat anymore for Lorenzo, who is the new enemy?
The church

According to the narrator, why was Michelangelo walking down a very dangerous path?
His artwork wasn't the "right" type of artwork for some people, which could be dangerous because those people might harm him later on.

In a few short sentences, describe the two predominant moods in Florence.
One side supported Lorenzo while the other supported Savonarola. Savonarola wanted religion to be at the heart of everything, and he though Lorenzo was brining doom to everybody. Lorenzo gave free rein to artists.












