The revolution that will be discussed in this video took place in which European country?
France

The marriage of the future King Louis XVI of France to the young Princess Marie Antoinette was arranged to solidify a political between France and which European empire?
Austria

Which of the following statement is TRUE about France and its new king, Louis XVI, at the time Louis XVI became king in 1774?
France's new king was woefully unprepared for the job of governing the country.

The ideas of which historical era - based on science and reason - would begin to challenge age old social and political traditions in Europe?
the Enlightenment

French financial and military support for this revolution brought France to the brink of financial ruin in the years leading up to the French Revolution?
the American Revolution

Discontent in France in the years immediately before the outbreak of the revolution was largely fueled by an increase in the price of flour and a shortage in the availability of what?
bread

Absorbed by the ideals of the Enlightenment, he came to the 1789 meeting of the Estates-General - the first meeting of the body in 175 years - prepared to fight for equality of the Third Estate?
Maximilian Robespierre

France's new National Assembly took the Tennis Court Oath as a pledge to continue to meet until they had completed what task?
written a constitution for France

(TRUE/FALSE) The extreme violence that accompanied the fall of the Bastille was condemned and criticized by the National Assembly.
False

In his newspaper "L'ami du Peuple," his writings called for further violence in the wake of the fall of the Bastille?
Jean-Paul Marat

As the women's march approached the royal Palace at Versailles, it has mistakenly been claimed that Queen Marie Antoinette reacted to news of the approaching mob by saying what?
"Let them eat cake!"

As a result of the Women's March, Louis XVI and his family will be forced to permanently relocate to here, making them now effectively prisoners of the revolution?
the Tuileries Palace in Paris

When Louis and his family attempted to flee France, to which foreign country were they hoping to escape?  (HINT:  It was the country of Marie-Antoinette's birth; one of her brothers was, at the time) its emperor.)
Austria


