How many Americans were killed in Pearl Harbor?
Over 2400

Who is the president when Pearl Harbor is attacked?
Franklin D. Roosevelt

Because of Pearl Harbor, the US declares war on whom?
Japan

Hitler broke his agreement and attacked what?
Russia

What groups of people did Hitler consider "undesirable"?
Jews, Gypsies, homosexuals, and anyone with a disabilities 

What was the preferred method of execution in death camps?
Gas

Hitler diverted troops from attacking Moscow to attacking where?
Stalingrad

Deciphered codes showed that the Japanese were going to attack what islands?
Midway

Who wins this battle?
United States

What is the Soviet Union's secret weapon in the battle of Stalingrad?
Russian Winter

After WWI, what would Hitler never do?
surrender 

When Hitler sends more troops into Stalingrad, 1 German soldier dies every how many seconds?
7 seconds 

How long does it take for US troops to capture Palermo, Sicily?
72 hours

After meeting with Hitler, how long did it take Italy to surrender?
2 months

Who is the "unlikely partner" that the Allied Powers team up with?
Stalin

What are the tanks and equipment made out of in Dover, England?
Balloons

What is the date of D-Day?
June 6, 1944

D-Day was the largest...?
Amphibious invasion

What was Churchill afraid of? (erm im not sure if this is a mistype)
Another invasion of Europe

Who/ what helped the Allies win the Battle of the Buldge
Patton/ Tanks

When Allied troops moved through Berlin, where did Hitler go?
A bunker underground

What does Hitler call the the killing of Jews. 
Final Solution

How many people are killed by the Holocaust?
11 million

Patton forces German soldiers and civilians to do what?
To see what happened in the camps

Who becomes president after FDR dies?
Truman 

After Mussolini’s death and the Soviet's advance into Germany, what does Hitler do?
Shot himself 

What happens to Churchill?
He was voted out of office

What happens on August 6, 1945?
An atomic bomb was dropped on Hiroshima 

How many Japanese citizens die?
80,000

How many citizens are killed in the Nagasaki bombings?
75,000

How many people were killed between 1913 and 1945?
100 million
