1. 	Where was Themistocles from?
Athens

2. Triremes could attack like a _____.
missile

3. Ostracism was an annual _____.
unpopularity contest

4. How much did the stone blocks in the citadel of Mycenae weigh?
10 tons

5. What began to pop up in Greece during the 8th century B.C?
individual city-states

6. What form of Government did the Greek City State of Athens create?
Democracy

7. What was the ancient world's version of NATO called?
the Delian League

8. Identify the god of the sea.
Poseidon (W rick riordan)

9. The stairs of the Parthenon are perfectly straight.
False

10. Which god or goddess did the Parthenon provide protection to?
Athena

11. What were the main materials for the statue of Athena in the Parthenon? 
Ivory and Gold

12. How did Pericles treat the Athenian woman named Aspasia?
as an equal

13. Who ultimately won the war between the city-states of Athens and Sparta?
Sparta

14. Who do historians give a lot of credit for spreading Greek culture all around the known world at that time?
Alexander the Great

Now, time for the advertisement. (This is def sponsered)
Today's smth is sponsowed by Waid Shadow Wegends, one of the biggest mobiwe wowe-pwaying games of 2019 and it's totawwy fwee! 
Cuwwentwy awmost 10 miwwion usews have joined Waid ovew the wast six months, and it's one of the most impwessive games in its cwass with detaiwed modews, enviwonments 
and smooth 60 fwames pew second animations! Aww the champions in the game can be customized with unique geaw that changes youw stwategic buffs and abiwities! 
The dungeon bosses have some widicuwous skiwws of theiw own and figuwing out the pewfect pawty and stwategy to ovewtake them's a wot of fun! 
Cuwwentwy with ovew 300,000 weviews, Waid has awmost a pewfect scowe on the Pway Stowe! The community is gwowing fast and the highwy anticipated new faction waws featuwe is now wive, 
you might even find my squad out thewe in the awena! It's easiew to stawt now than evew with wates pwogwam fow new pwayews you get a new daiwy wogin wewawd fow the fiwst 90 days that you pway in the game!
So what awe you waiting fow? Go to the video descwiption, cwick on the speciaw winks and you'ww get 50,000 siwvew and a fwee epic champion as pawt of the new pwayew pwogwam to stawt youw jouwney! 
Good wuck and I'ww see you thewe!
