What happened to the Parthenon?
It was destroyed when a cannonball set off gunpowder that was stored there.

Who was the common enemy for most of the Greek ciity-states?
The Persians

Why was the Parthenon built?
To honor and house a giant statue of the Goddess Athena.

How long did it take to build the city of Athens?
50 years

What form of government did the Greeks invent that we still use today?
democracy

Where were the sacrifices to the Gods usually performed?
Just outside the temple so the smoke can go up to the Gods.

True or False: The Greek Gods behaved very much like humans in that they got angry and jealous and would lash out against those that offended them.
True

To whom was the Temple of Delphi dedicated?
Apollo

How did the Oracle of Delphi get her visions?
She was given hallucinogenic herbs to go into a trance.

True or False: Today, Greek society is still a very male-dominated society. 
True

True or False: Ancient Greek athletic festivals had almost no resemblance to modern athletic events. 
False

What did athletes wear to compete?
Nothing, they competed in the nude.

What international sporting competition was first held in Greece, that we still have today?
The Olympics


What was Socrates accused of?

Not believing in the Gods and corrupting the young.

Forcing his students to convert to a religion that only believed in one God.

Criticizing the Athenian government and leading a political movement to change it.

Not paying his taxes on time to the city of Athens.

[35:30]

Because of the plague, what happened to Pericles?

He was not reelected to his office as the leader of Athens and he later died of the plague.

He felt ashamed that he could not stop it and left the city of Athens.

Nothing happened, and he continued to lead Athens for several more years.

He threw all of the people that came in from the countryside out of the city of Athens and was reelected after that.

[37:01]

True or False: The Spartans refused to make peace with the Athenians even though the Athenians repeatedly asked for it. 

True

False

[38:53]

How did Socrates die?

He was sentenced to death by firing squad.

He was sentenced to death by hanging.

He was sentenced to death by poison, which he drank himself.

He was sentenced to death by beheading.

[40:22]

How long did it take to originally build the Parthenon?

15 years

50 years

5 years

150 years

[41:06]

What happened to most of the statues from the Parthenon?

They were safely removed and put in a museum in Athens.

They were stolen and sold all over Europe and the world.

They were all destroyed when the Parthenon exploded in 1687.

They were resotored and put back on the Parthenon.

[41:57]

Where are the remaining statues from the Parthenon?

They were all stolen and sold and no one knows where they are.

They were taken to England and are now on display at the British Museum.

They were sent to the United States and are on display at the Smithsonian.

They were all destroyed by theives.
