Muhammad was born in the city of ______
Mecca

Because they were believed to be the holders of traditional Arab values, Muhammad was sent to live with the...
Bedoins.

In ancient Arab tribal society what was key to everything -- one's status, honor, dignity, success?
clan and family relationships

At an early age, Muhammad developed a deep concern for
those that were left out of society.

Why were poets revered?
They sang of the glory of the tribe and told the story of the tribe.

Warfare was constant over...
precious and scarce resources such as water, trade routes, and grazing lands.

Each clan had its own...
gods and totems.

The area around the Kaaba in Mecca was a vibrant center for trade because...
weapons (arms) were not allowed and business could be done without worry of feuds being carried out.

Muhammad became known as Al-Amin meaning, _____.
"the trusted one."

Where was Muhammad when he reported that he had a vision and was visited by an angel?
In a cave meditating.

What was the most central message of Muhammad?
That there is only one God.

Muhammad's message had a great emphasis on social justice meaning that those with wealth...
should share it with those that were poor.

Muslim means...
one who has surrendered or submitted to God.

Once people realized that Muhammad's message needed to be written down to avoid corruption the _________ was created.
Qur'an

In Islamic paintings Muhammad is depicted (shown) as a __________ not a deity (god).
historical figure

To nonbelievers Muhammad's teachings were an outrage because it caused a threat to social order, traditions, and even Mecca's economy. What happened because of the persecution of Muhammad's followers?
His followers left Mecca for Yathrib to create their own tribe not based on blood (relations), but instead on faith.

What is the journey by Muhammad and his followers to Yathrib known as?
The hijrah

As Muhammad's work to bring unity and peace between the tribe's of Yathrib the town would become known as Medina, which means...
the "city of the prophet"

Islam did not challenge beliefs of other faiths. Instead Muhammad treated Jews and Christians as...
"people of the book."

It is said that while Muhammad was in Medina that he received a revelation instructing those in prayer...
to face in the direction of the Kaaba in Mecca.

In 630 AD the Muslims conquered the Meccans but instead of killing the men and selling women and children into slavery, the victorious Muslims embraced the Meccans. What did Muhammad have destroyed though?
the idols, the tribal totem gods

Invading Muslim armies forced the conquered people to convert to Islam or be killed.
False

Islamic rule allowed conquered people to maintain administrative structure and allowed Christians and Jew to maintain their religious law.
True

The Muslims worked to maintain or improve the infrastructure of the lands they conquered. One such innovation was...
a water purification system.

It is said that within the Dome of the Rock in Jerusalem is...
the rock on which Abraham nearly sacraficed his son.

Who was chosen to take up the leadership position after Muhammad?
Abu Bakr



























