So I only recently got into Eaglercraft, and by then, my friend had managed to host it on github. 
But that had its limitations because of 120 hours per month and he had to turn it on every 4 hours. 
Somehow he managed to max out 120 hours in a week (no clue how), and got himself banned. 
Since I already have a github account and don’t want to get banned for making multiple accounts, I decided to learn how to self-host it. 
I decided to learn how to make a server by self-hosting, and after watching bedrock’s videos on making it, getting to the end, and discovering that it cost money, 
I tried a different way. 
This is an extremely easy way that might not even be counted as self-hosting, and I’m not sure why I didn’t think of it.
Get a usable computer that is either not in use or can handle a server running in the background.
Using any operating system, (This actually doesn’t matter for once), download and install vscode which might already be installed.
Download the files, I attached 2 different github links below for where I got mine from. 
Run it, change the eula in the server directory to be TRUE. usually, in github, it asks you if you want to forward a port and make it public, but you can still manually do this in vscode (or by doing it in the terminal, I attached a stackoverflow question about this) by going to ports and forwarding it with remote tunnel access.
Get the link for port 8081 and send it to people.
You could also use your own server and follow bedrock’s yt guide for a more comprehensive idea
I know that you could probably do all of this in a terminal, like for linux, opening the terminal then the usual sudo apt-get update and sudo apt-get upgrade, along with installing java, like sudo apt-get install openjdk-17-jdk (not sure if this actually works im just going by memory) or wtv type of java you want. Cd into the directories, start server, then do “ssh -L 8081:remote-machine-ip:8081 remote-machine-ip” im not even sure if this works bc im too lazy to test this once I got it working. 
And thats it
Useful Links:
https://github.com/IsmaelTechDEV/EaglerXVelocity
https://github.com/IsmaelTechProxy/server-test
https://code.visualstudio.com/Download
More links:
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/63701361/how-does-vscode-remote-development-forward-port-work
