Where was Alexander born?
Macedon

Who was Alexander's father?
Phillip II

Bucephalus was _______
Alexander's horse

Who was Alexander's most famous tutor?
Aristotle

What happened when Alexander was put in charge of Macedon at the age of 16?
A group of people in Greece revolted

Which two major Greek city-states were defeated by Phillip II and Alexander?
Thebes and Athens

What was the main cause of tension between Alexander and his father? (open-ended)
Alexander thought his father was stopping him from getting his inheritance.

How did Alexander become king of Macedon?
His father was assassinated

Which of these did NOT happen when Alexander became king of Macedon?
Alexander was immediately respected as king

What did Alexander do to show the city-states not to revolt?
Destroyed the city of Thebes

What empire did Alexander first try to take over?
Persia

What did Alexander do to the Greek mercenaries fighting for the Persians? (open-ended)
He either enslaved them or they were killed on the battlefield or his army killed them.

Describe the story of Alexander and the Gordian Knot. (open-ended)
He was given a knot to untie, and what he did was he directly pulled out his sword and cut the knot in half.

The video states that many nations panicked at Alexander's perceived invincibility and "acceded" once he entered their territory. Based on the context, what do you think accede means?
Surrender

What did Alexander believe would let him continue to conquer new places?
Destiny

Why did the city of Jerusalem welcome Alexander into the city?
They believed he had been prophecied about

What city did Alexander create in Egypt? (open-ended)
Alexandria

What happened to King Darius?
Killed by his own soldier

What stopped Alexander from conquering all of India?
His own men

What are some reasons why the Macedonians did not like Alexander? (open-ended)
He changed their culture and ways of life, integrating different religions together and mashing them.

Why do you think Alexander never got to continue his conquest? (do not Google the answer, just make a guess) (open-ended)
He died?
