What spread throughout the land besides Islam?
Trade

Who made Baghdad the Jewel of the World? (open-ended)
Scholars

Critical thinking question:
Consider these quotes from Islamic holy texts:
”[Allah] has taught you that which [before now] you knew not." (Quran, Surah [2: 239])
"The men of knowledge are the inheritors of the prophets.” (Hadith – sayings of the Prophet)
What do these quotes tell you about the role of knowledge in Islam? (open-ended)
It's very important and an essential part of the islam's religion.

What was the Muslims' biggest contribution in Science? (open-ended)
They made the scientific process (scientific method)

What modern day subjects can be traced back to Muslims?  (name at least 2) (open-ended)
Astronomy and Science and Math

Critical thinking question:
One of the 5 Pillars, the Pillar of Alms inspired Muslims to develop many of these medical advancements.  Explain what "alms" are and how this religious requirement might have inspired Islamic medicine
Alms are the requirement for the wealthy to help out the poor, funding hospitals, inspiring islamic medicine.

Critical thinking question:
The scientific achievements that you just learned about were made in the Islamic Golden Age between ~800 C.E. and 1300 C.E..  Two to three hundred years later in Europe during the Renaissance, great scientists such as Copernicus and Galileo were wrestling with the work of these Islamic scientists and risking being punished by the Catholic Church. 
In Europe around 1600 C.E. Galileo was developing telescopes and working on extending the findings of earlier Islamic scientists to confirm the theory that the sun, and not the earth, was the center of the solar system.  However the Catholic Church taught that the earth was the center of the solar system and challenging this teaching was a sin.  Galileo was threatened with execution by being burned alive for challenging the Church’s teachings.  He ended up taking back his teachings and thus remained on house arrest for the rest of his life.
Explain the difference between how religion influenced learning in Europe versus the Islamic world? (open-ended)
Religon in Europe restricted scientists, like how Galileo had to give up his life's ideas, getting sentenced to house arrest. Meanwhile, in the Islamic world, religon boosted learning, funding it.

What did the caliph Al-Hakim do that led the Pope to call for an attack against the Muslims in Jerusalem?
He burned down the Church of the Holy Sepulcher in Jerusalem, a church holy to Christians.

Was this event typical of the way Muslims had treated Christians during the golden age?
No

In 1095, what did the Pope (the leader of Christians in Europe) decide to do? (open-ended)
He wanted a crusade so he could conquer muslims and convert them to christianity.

Who entered Jerusalem in 1099?
Crusaders, from Europe

What did the Crusaders build that was previously unseen in the Middle East?
Castles

What did the Crusaders find out about the Islamic world that contradicted the Pope's speech that the Muslims were barbaric people?
That the Muslims were much more advanced in terms of technology and trade than Europe was

Who lured the Christians out of Jerusalem?
Saladin

What caught on in Europe after the Crusaders were introduced to it in the Middle East?
Soap

Who were the Muslims nervous about?  (This was the same group of invaders that had toppled the Song dynasty of the golden age of China)
Mongols

What city did the Mongols take over?
Baghdad

Overall, what is your reaction to this film about the Muslims' golden age? (open-ended)
It seems a lot better then Europe at that time, as Europe was going through some turmoil but the Muslims were thriving. It's pretty impressive.


